.\"
.TH AMFLUSH 8
.SH NAME
amflush \- flushes Amanda backup files from holding disk to tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amflush 
.I [ -f ] config

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B Amflush
writes all the Amanda backup files from the holding disk to tape, and
updates the Amanda info database and tape list accordingly.  The
backups go to the holding disk when something is wrong with the tape
at the time
.B amdump
is run, usually at night.  When this happens, the operator must
correct the problem and run
.B amflush
by hand the next day.
.PP  
.B Amflush
will look in the holding disk specified by the
.I amanda.conf
file in /opt/amanda/config/\fIconfig\fR
for any non-empty Amanda work directories.  It then prompts the
operator to select the correct directory.  The work directories on the
holding disk are named by the date at the time
.B amdump
was run.  
.PP
.B Amflush 
normally detaches from the user's tty and runs as a background
process.  With the -f option, amflush stays in the foreground; this is
useful if
.B amflush 
is run as part of another script that, for example, advances the tape
in a carousel after the flush is completed.

See the
.IR amanda(8)
man page for more details about 
Amanda.

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
% amflush DailySet1
If the 19910215 directory exists in the holding disk work directory,
.B amflush 
will prompt the operator then write all the backups for Feb 15, 1991
from the holding disk to the tape.
.B Amflush
then updates the databases and sends 
a mail report to the operators, as specified by the "DailySet1" configuration.

.SH AUTHOR
James da Silva <jds@cs.umd.edu>
.br
University of Maryland, College Park

.SH "SEE ALSO"
amanda(8), amdump(8).
